# How to Contribute

All kinds of contributions are welcome. You don't have to write code to be part
of the ngorm community, in fact the area which needs a lot of help is
documentation, writing examples how tos and what not.


## Bug Report

You can issue bug reports by omening an issue. But before you file any issue
take some time to search on the [issues]()  page to be sure that it is not a
duplicate, this way you will saving a lot of energy.

__TIP__: For bugs, you can filter by label BUG, this way you can quickly walk on
issues that have been labeled as bugs.

A good Bug report should

- [ ] Have a clear title: Not short and cryptic titles, or generic ones like
  "Holy, cow this thing is crashing AF"

- [ ] Include information such as
  - [ ] The version of ngorm
  - [ ] Go version
  - [ ] The operating system and other relevant information.

- [ ] Steps to reproduce the problem. Let us be honest here, the maintainer will
  need to observe the problem. for him/she to help solving it.

- [ ] Expected behaviour: This is a detailed information on how you expected
  ngorm to behave.

- [ ] The actual behavior: This is what actually happened.

- [ ] If It is performance related please include the benchmarks stats.



## Feature Request

## Pull Request

It is recommended that pull request must be only one commit. If there are
multiple commits then they should be squashed before being merged. There are
exceptions though but not the norm.

### Commit messages

The commit message title must follow the following pattern. Not that the
sections of the patterns are separated by one space.

	[TPACKAGE|PACKAGE/SUBPACKAGE}KEY_WORD] [ACTIONS] : [SHORT DESCRIPTON]

Where by
- PACKAGE - is the top level package from the root of the project. At the time
of this writing there are 12 top level packages( This number is subject to
change)
  - `builder` - where SQL building functions lives.
  - `dialects` - where databases support drivers lives.
  - `engine`  - the core of ngorm
  - `errmsg` - common error messages
  - `hooks` - callbacks
  - `logger` -logs
  - `model`- models
  - `regexes`- precompiled regular expressions
  - `scope` -engine manipulation functions
  - `search` -search related functions
  -`util` - utility functions
  - `ngorm` This is the package that lives in the root directory. Mainly public
	facing API.
- SUBPACKAGE - is any package under the main PACKAGE eg `gl` is a subpackage of
  `dialects`

- KEY_WORD - there are few to level keywords, for now we only have `doc` Which
  refers to high level Documentation. GUIDE etc.
- ACTIONS -Are `add, fix, doc, update,refactor,feature,new`

This is a sample
```
[dialects/ql] feature : Support PrimaryKey autoincrement

This commit implements autoincrement of ID fields of models for ql database.

The way ql works is, it doesnt have AUTOINCREMENT feature instead every new
record is assigned a unique id only acceccible via the id function.

After this change creating a new record will automatically assign the id
generated by ql to the model's ID field.
```

## Contributing to Documentation

